hey guys J here for my TOEFL reading
practice I hope your preparations going
well remember if you need any help at
any stage do think about upgrading your
account for tutorials and live classes
etc right in this lesson we're going to
look at reading skill number nine which
is called simplify information what I'm
going to do in this lesson is help you
to understand the question type and help
you to learn how to answer it accurately
because that's what it's all about
in order to do that I'm going to
describe the task to you I'm going to
teach you a method and then give you the
opportunity to practice for yourself
first of all
task description well what you must do
in this task is choose the sentence that
expresses the same meaning as the
highlighted sentence I'll show you in a
second in other words it must say the
same thing but in a different way what
do I mean by that well here we go the
first thing you'll notice about this
question type is that the sentence here
is in bold text so the earth is a target
in a cosmic shooting gallery subjective
random violent events that were
unsuspected a few decades ago the
question says this which of the
sentences below best summarizes the
highlighted section of the passage in
other words does this sentence say the
same thing as this sentence does it say
the same thing as this sentence does it
say the same thing is this sentence or
does this sentence say the same thing is
that sentence there right because one of
these sentences says the exact same
thing in different words three of them
will say something slightly different or
leave out important information this is
a bit of a tricky one so step one read
the prompt well we know that now let's
just read it again so you're really
clear which of the sentences below best
summarizes the highlighted section of
the passage call fire now step two read
the highlighted sentence in the passage
and think about the meaning it expresses
think about how you
rewrite it for example let's read it
says earth is a target in a cosmic
shooting gallery subject to random
violent events that were unsuspected a
few decades ago earth is a target in a
cosmic shooting gallery subject to
random violent events that were
unsuspected a few decades ago how what
does that mean
what does that mean and how would you
rewrite this if you were to rewrite it I
would say something like ok so earth is
bombarded by lots of meteors and and
people didn't realize this until a few
like 1020 years ago something like that
ok that's my summary of it step 3 read
the answer options and eliminate
eliminate those that don't say the same
thing ok fine let's have a look till
recently nobody realized that earth is
exposed to unpredictable violent impacts
from space hmm not bad in the last few
decades the risk of random violent
impacts from space is increased
I don't didn't say anything about
increasing since most violent events on
earth occur randomly nobody can predict
when or where they will happen now
definitely not a few decades ago earth
became the target of random violent
events originating in outer space hmm
well ok I'm stuck between a and D but
there is a big difference between these
two do you know the answer
step 4 choose the answer that reflects
the same meaning it is in fact a I know
this says a few decades ago but this is
relatively recently until recently
nobody realized it was unsuspected
nobody realized that earth is exposed to
unpredictable violent impacts from space
in other words it's a cosmic shooting
gallery subjective violent events so
this says the same thing as this in
different words these say something
different or they leave out critical
information let's just look at D a few
decades ago earth beacon
aim the target of random violent events
originating in outer space no it's
always been happening
it was unsuspected until a few decades
ago so this has changed it to mean
something different right I want you to
do some practice because this is pretty
tricky and this sentence that you have
to read is kind of big pause the video
give yourself a minute I want you to
find which of those answer options says
the same thing as that bold sentence but
says it in different words I'll see you
in a few seconds how did you go did you
find the answer I hope you did it
because you do need to practice this
stuff it's not Theory you have to
actually build those neurons in your
brain and in fact this is about neurons
in the brain let's have a look at it
let's read this passage here this
sentence although we know that in the
human brain there are about 100 billion
neurons that communicate by means of
electrical signals the question of how
our brain develop develops rather the
ability to perform complex cognitive
functions such as those needed for
language and reasoning is a question
researchers are not yet able to answer
that's right here the brain is a complex
structure that is responsible for highly
sophisticated cognitive functions such
as language it's missing a big part of
this though we know that the brain
performs complex functions such as
language reasoning we don't yet know how
it does this hmm I don't mind that one
researchers are currently studying the
link between the brain and language
processing nor the hundred billion
neurons in the brain communicate by
electrical signals to perform
highly-developed functions such as
language well it's also missing
something quite critical the answer is B
this sentence here says the same thing
as this sentence here but just in
different words cool how did you go
listen if you need help for TOEFL
success
check out e2 language comm live classes
tutorials feedback when you're speaking
and writing and
loads of practice questions so you can
walk in on test day be confident and get
the score that you need I'll see you
soon